The Adventures of a Jackal

[Thorpe's Yule-Tide Stories.]


In a country which is full of wild beasts of all sorts there once lived
a jackal and a hedgehog, and, unlike though they were, the two animals
made great friends, and were often seen in each other's company.

One afternoon they were walking along a road together, when the jackal,
who was the taller of the two, exclaimed:

'Oh! there is a barn full of corn; let us go and eat some.'

'Yes, do let us!' answered the hedgehog. So they went to the barn, and
ate till they could eat no more. Then the jackal put on his shoes, which
he had taken off so as to make no noise, and they returned to the high
road.

After they had gone some way they met a panther, who stopped, and bowing
politely, said:

'Excuse my speaking to you, but I cannot help admiring those shoes of
yours. Do you mind telling me who made them?'

'Yes, I think they are rather nice,' answered the jackal; 'I made them
myself, though.'

'Could you make me a pair like them?' asked the panther eagerly.

'I would do my best, of course,' replied the jackal; 'but you must kill
me a cow, and when we have eaten the flesh I will take the skin and make
your shoes out of it.'

So the panther prowled about until he saw a fine cow grazing apart from
the rest of the herd. He killed it instantly, and then gave a cry to the
jackal and hedgehog to come to the place where he was. They soon skinned
the dead beasts, and spread its skin out to dry, after which they had
a grand feast before they curled themselves up for the night, and slept
soundly.

Next morning the jackal got up early and set to work upon the shoes,
while the panther sat by and looked on with delight. At last they were
finished, and the jackal arose and stretched himself.

'Now go and lay them in the sun out there,' said he; 'in a couple of
hours they will be ready to put on; but do not attempt to wear them
before, or you will feel them most uncomfortable. But I see the sun is
high in the heavens, and we must be continuing our journey.'

The panther, who always believed what everybody told him, did exactly
as he was bid, and in two hours' time began to fasten on the shoes.
They certainly set off his paws wonderfully, and he stretched out his
forepaws and looked at them with pride. But when he tried to walk--ah!
that was another story! They were so stiff and hard that he nearly
shrieked every step he took, and at last he sank down where he was, and
actually began to cry.

After some time some little partridges who were hopping about heard the
poor panther's groans, and went up to see what was the matter. He had
never tried to make his dinner off them, and they had always been quite
friendly.

'You seem in pain,' said one of them, fluttering close to him, 'can we
help you?'

'Oh, it is the jackal! He made me these shoes; they are so hard and
tight that they hurt my feet, and I cannot manage to kick them off.'

'Lie still, and we will soften them,' answered the kind little
partridge. And calling to his brothers, they all flew to the nearest
spring, and carried water in their beaks, which they poured over the
shoes. This they did till the hard leather grew soft, and the panther
was able to slip his feet out of them.

'Oh, thank you, thank you,' he cried, skipping round with joy. 'I feel
a different creature. Now I will go after the jackal and pay him my
debts.' And he bounded away into the forest.

But the jackal had been very cunning, and had trotted backwards and
forwards and in and out, so that it was very difficult to know which
track he had really followed. At length, however, the panther caught
sight of his enemy, at the same moment that the jackal had caught sight
of him. The panther gave a loud roar, and sprang forward, but the
jackal was too quick for him and plunged into a dense thicket, where the
panther could not follow.

Disgusted with his failure, but more angry than ever, the panther lay
down for a while to consider what he should do next, and as he was
thinking, an old man came by.

'Oh! father, tell me how I can repay the jackal for the way he has
served me!' And without more ado he told his story.

'If you take my advice,' answered the old man, 'you will kill a cow, and
invite all the jackals in the forest to the feast. Watch them carefully
while they are eating, and you will see that most of them keep their
eyes on their food. But if one of them glances at you, you will know
that is the traitor.'

The panther, whose manners were always good, thanked the old man, and
followed his counsel. The cow was killed, and the partridges flew about
with invitations to the jackals, who gathered in large numbers to the
feast. The wicked jackal came amongst them; but as the panther had only
seen him once he could not distinguish him from the rest. However, they
all took their places on wooden seats placed round the dead cow, which
was laid across the boughs of a fallen tree, and began their dinner,
each jackal fixing his eyes greedily on the piece of meat before him.
Only one of them seemed uneasy, and every now and then glanced in the
direction of his host. This the panther noticed, and suddenly made a
bound at the culprit and seized his tail; but again the jackal was too
quick for him, and catching up a knife he cut off his tail and darted
into the forest, followed by all the rest of the party. And before the
panther had recovered from his surprise he found himself alone.

'What am I to do now?' he asked the old man, who soon came back to see
how things had turned out.

'It is very unfortunate, certainly,' answered he; 'but I think I know
where you can find him. There is a melon garden about two miles from
here, and as jackals are very fond of melons they are nearly sure to
have gone there to feed. If you see a tailless jackal you will know that
he is the one you want.' So the panther thanked him and went his way.

Now the jackal had guessed what advice the old man would give his enemy,
and so, while his friends were greedily eating the ripest melons in the
sunniest corner of the garden, he stole behind them and tied their tails
together. He had only just finished when his ears caught the sound of
breaking branches; and he cried: 'Quick! quick! here comes the master of
the garden!' And the jackals sprang up and ran away in all directions,
leaving their tails behind them. And how was the panther to know which
was his enemy?

'They none of them had any tails,' he said sadly to the old man, 'and
I am tired of hunting them. I shall leave them alone and go and catch
something for supper.'

Of course the hedgehog had not been able to take part in any of these
adventures; but as soon as all danger was over, the jackal went to look
for his friend, whom he was lucky enough to find at home.

'Ah, there you are,' he said gaily. 'I have lost my tail since I saw you
last. And other people have lost theirs too; but that is no matter! I am
hungry, so come with me to the shepherd who is sitting over there, and
we will ask him to sell us one of his sheep.'

'Yes, that is a good plan,' answered the hedgehog. And he walked as
fast as his little legs would go to keep up with the jackal. When they
reached the shepherd the jackal pulled out his purse from under his
foreleg, and made his bargain.

'Only wait till to-morrow,' said the shepherd, 'and I will give you the
biggest sheep you ever saw. But he always feeds at some distance from
the rest of the flock, and it would take me a long time to catch him.'

'Well, it is very tiresome, but I suppose I must wait,' replied the
jackal. And he and the hedgehog looked about for a nice dry cave in
which to make themselves comfortable for the night. But, after they had
gone, the shepherd killed one of his sheep, and stripped off his skin,
which he sewed tightly round a greyhound he had with him, and put a cord
round its neck. Then he lay down and went to sleep.

Very, very early, before the sun was properly up, the jackal and the
hedgehog were pulling at the shepherd's cloak.

'Wake up,' they said, 'and give us that sheep. We have had nothing to
eat all night, and are very hungry.'

The shepherd yawned and rubbed his eyes. 'He is tied up to that tree;
go and take him.' So they went to the tree and unfastened the cord,
and turned to go back to the cave where they had slept, dragging the
greyhound after them. When they reached the cave the jackal said to the
hedgehog.

'Before I kill him let me see whether he is fat or thin.' And he stood
a little way back, so that he might the better examine the animal.
After looking at him, with his head on one side, for a minute or two, he
nodded gravely.

'He is quite fat enough; he is a good sheep.'

But the hedgehog, who sometimes showed more cunning than anyone would
have guessed, answered:

'My friend, you are talking nonsense. The wool is indeed a sheep's wool,
but the paws of my uncle the greyhound peep out from underneath.'

'He is a sheep,' repeated the jackal, who did not like to think anyone
cleverer than himself.

'Hold the cord while I look at him,' answered the hedgehog.

Very unwillingly the jackal held the rope, while the hedgehog walked
slowly round the greyhound till he reached the jackal again. He knew
quite well by the paws and tail that it was a greyhound and not a sheep,
that the shepherd had sold them; and as he could not tell what turn
affairs might take, he resolved to get out of the way.

'Oh! yes, you are right,' he said to the jackal; 'but I never can eat
till I have first drunk. I will just go and quench my thirst from
that spring at the edge of the wood, and then I shall be ready for
breakfast.'

'Don't be long, then,' called the jackal, as the hedgehog hurried off at
his best pace. And he lay down under a rock to wait for him.

More than an hour passed by and the hedgehog had had plenty of time to
go to the spring and back, and still there was no sign of him. And this
was very natural, as he had hidden himself in some long grass under a
tree!

At length the jackal guessed that for some reason his friend had run
away, and determined to wait for his breakfast no longer. So he went up
to the place where the greyhound had been tethered and untied the rope.
But just as he was about to spring on his back and give him a deadly
bite, the jackal heard a low growl, which never proceeded from the
throat of any sheep. Like a flash of lightning the jackal threw down the
cord and was flying across the plain; but though his legs were long, the
greyhound's legs were longer still, and he soon came up with his prey.
The jackal turned to fight, but he was no match for the greyhound, and
in a few minutes he was lying dead on the ground, while the greyhound
was trotting peacefully back to the shepherd.